Alive?
We don't know if it's true.
not a hundred-percent.
but an Up-Topper claiming
to be Bernard's shadow
snuck down and he
told me that...
when Jules was last seen.
she was still alive.
Where?
- Outside?
- I don't know.
But it gives us hope.
Not that you ever lost it.
A lot of people come through those
doors saying my Juliette is alive.
They chant it on the stairs.
carve it into the walls...
but you're the first
people I actually believe.
We're out of gloves.
I tell you that?
We're understaffed. I
haven't slept really. not...
Dr. Nichols. we need you
for something urgent.
I'm providing medical services
to every soul below the barricade
during a time of rebellion.
What could possibly
be more pressing?
War.
Okay. I got it.
Let's go.
- This is my lunch box.
- Jimmy.
What?
- You okay?
- Yeah.
I just haven't been in
here in a long time.
The last time I was in here
was the last time I saw my mom.
It goes right there.
I remember.
They were standing...
there.
They were younger than me.
I mean. than I am now.
I got so old.
It's been so long.
My mom. she wanted me to sit in
my chair and eat my lunch like...
like... it was just
like a normal day.
Were you an only child?
No sisters. brothers?
- No.
- Are there more suits?
If you had one when you were
a kid. maybe it could fit me?
No. I never saw a suit for
me but my dad had that one
and then my mom had one made.
but I don't see it anywhere.
Jimmy.
We need to go.
Can I... Is it okay if I just
spend a little time in here?
Just a little bit?
But I'm leaving soon.
I know.
"Safeguard Procedure."
- How far do you have to walk?
- The air will get you
- before you take your first step...
- Yeah. I just want to know.
- It's not too far. but...
- Hey!
What?
- There's something you have to see.
- No. I have to get going.
Oh. no! That's why
you have to see it.
What I have to show you. it might
be the only way to save your silo.
Come on!
Come on. come on. come on!
Fuck.
Hey. it's Mr. Blue ID Guy.
Can I see it?
Okay. Here.
"Lukas." Right.
- You're coming with me.
- No. I need to get up top.
Shirley told me to find someone
named Lukas and lock him up.
- Look. you have no idea...
- Probably not.
But I don't care.
You wanna walk or be dragged?
Just...
Dragged it is.
Son of a bitch.
Fuck. man. Sorry.
You all right?
Yeah. we're good.
What am I looking at?
Something we've been hoping
to avoid for some time now.
- What do you mean we? I never saw this.
- Nobody has.
There's gunpowder rolling down
the hallway. so somebody has.
They only know what they
need to. Not all of it.
The people in this room
are the people we trust.
What's the plan?
Look. it's a risk.
The odds are not in our favor.
That's not a good
place to start.
But in our present situation.
the chances of long-term
survival. they're not much better.
Resources are running out.
It's only a matter of time
before they take back the farm.
so it's kind of now or never.
I wouldn't have said this when we
started. but now they need to know
that we are willing
to risk everything.
And by everything?
The only thing we
have for leverage.
In one hour. I'm gonna lead a team
that will storm the barricade.
Shirley will follow
with a second wave.
But our goal isn't so much
to win at the barricade.
- Then what are we...
- Bu...
But to hold off the raiders
for at least three hours.
Why three?
'Cause that's how long it takes
to rig the generator to explode.
- You're going to blow up the generator?
- If we don't get what we want.
If you don't get what you want.
you're gonna kill everybody?
- We're not gonna kill everybody.
- What do you want. Sheriff?
- I want to know the truth.
- They won't give it to us.
Not unless they have to.
Three hours.
That's all we need.
But the timeline
stays in this room.
because if somebody from the Up Top
finds out. this will all be for nothing.
I'll go with the first wave.
Got you.
Send your raiders to storm the
barricades. arrest the rebels
and secure the
generator room now.
- How many should I send?
- All of them.
Go!
What the hell was
that all about?
I don't know.
What the fuck is that?
Go. go. go. go!
Fuck.
- Run!
- What?
Stop...
Stop! Stop. You
don't understand!
Come on. It's here.
- It's in here somewhere.
- Okay.
- How to save them. It's j...
- What?
Wait. you can't hear
this. You gotta go.
- What?
- The Eater has to go!
- Don't call me Eater!
- You're too young to hear this.
- You don't get to call me that!
- It's okay.
It's okay.
What do you want to be called?
My mom called me Hope.
Hope? Okay. that's great.
That's a great name. Hope.
Hey. if you go back to the vault.
we'll be right back. I promise.
Okay?
Sorry.
Jimmy.
Okay. look. It's written here:
"the Safeguard Procedure."
I heard my parents
whispering about it.
It could kill people.
But that morning. they
figured out a way to stop it.
- And if you learn it. okay...
- Okay.
If you know it. then maybe you
can keep your silo from dying.
I remember my mom
not coming back
and then... whatever
my parents did. worked.
- What?
- My mom and dad saved people's lives.
All those people went
outside. they didn't die.
Not at first.
They didn't die. Juliette.
And you think that whatever they
did could help save my silo?
- Yes!
- Okay.
- It's in here somewhere. We just...
I...
I don't know what I'm
looking for. I just...
Wait. If we're gonna do this.
you have to remember. okay?
- You have to try.
- Okay. okay.
They're coming!
- Go on. Get out of here.
- Fuck.
- Are they down there?
- Yeah.
You with me?
Always.
Then let's fucking go!
- Okay.
- Search every room!
- Are you okay? I'm sorry.
- Yeah. Yeah.
Paul. what's going on?
Find him!
They're coming. So...
Paul Billings. you're under arrest for
a violation of Pact Order 11-24 Delta:
Dereliction of duty
with seditious intent.
Wait. wait. There's
a child over there.
It's not personal. Paul.
I'm just doing my job.
like you taught me.
Kathleen.
Kathleen!
It is a really inconvenient
time right now.
Maybe you should stop by
when your mom's here...
Let's go.
Restore radio
communication in the Silo.
Yes. sir.
You all right. sir?
Yes. I am.
Any luck finding Lukas Kyle?
Not yet.
Did we choose the wrong side?
By delivering
Billings's message?
Maybe.
If Bernard finds out.
sending us out to clean
with our son watching
will be the most generous
punishment he'll offer.
Maybe the message
will still pay off.
Either way. it's time.
You find a way into the
vault and I'll get our boy.
I remember the vault. I remember my
mom and dad had Solo take me there.
- He's the one who put me in there.
- Right.
Then. a couple of days
later. I remember explosions.
and I remember gunshots and
then I remember the sheriff
bringing my dad back.
but my mom wasn't there.
But then. my dad...
my dad told him that it
was safe to go outside.
He told them that they had
done something to make it safe.
But the sheriff. he...
Sorry. he wanted the truth.
And so my dad told
him the tru...
It's a pipe.
The Safeguard is a pipe.
What?
- We have to find it.
- Okay.
You're here for your safety
and the safety of the Silo.
Your peace will be
met with kindness.
- Your violence will be met with...
- Shut the fuck up!
Hey!
Hey! Lay off!
You okay?
Teddy.
- Are you okay?
- Of course he is. Look at him.
He's a tough kid.
You did your mama proud.
We were worried about you.
You kicked Randy in the nuts?
Yeah. well. I needed
to get up top.
Why?
You're not gonna tell me
what you found down there?
Don't worry. because
it doesn't matter now.
- Tell me...
- It doesn't matter.
It just...
Hi. honey.
What are they gonna do with us?
- Let's just stay calm. keep Claire safe.
- Come with us. Billings.
- Hey. hey!
- It's gonna be okay!
This display. it's all a lie!
This is all bullshit.
You know that. right?
Right?
This display!
It's all lies!
I saw it!
So did some of you.
Nichols showed me.
She was trying to show
everyone the truth!
Wait.
I saw it.
A flash of blue and green.
When they shut down the power
to fix the generator. I saw it.
It's safe outside.
Juliette Nichols is alive!
Juliette lives!
Mayor Holland specifically said
they should be in separate cells.
No. Mayor Holland
says. "Thank you.
The Silo is grateful
for your co-operation."
You. Walk?
It was the only way.
You both are free to go.
Get the fuck away from me.
I'm not going anywhere.
Well. I have to see him.
For you. I'm sure
he'll make time.
I hope he sends
you out to clean.
Everybody in this motherfucker
knows Juliette is alive.
It's safe outside
and you know it.
- I saw.
- Out of the way.
Hey. hold it.
If I don't get your colleague to
a functioning medical level soon.
he's gonna die on the stairs.
Look. doc. I have orders.
It's okay. Dan. I got it.
Jean. they gave me strict orders
not to let anyone out of here
- until they give the word and they...
- We found gunpowder.
- A lot of it.
- Fuck. Just go. go!
Come on.
What level? Where?
In Mechanical. It's everywhere.
Received.
They had to block it. They
had to put a cap on it.
But they were afraid
- that something would go wrong.
- Why? Why did they have to cap it?
Because it had poison in it.
Enough poison to kill
everybody. All 10.000 people.
We have to find a
map of the silo.
Okay. The pipe
came from outside.
- Here.
- Wait.
Here.
- There.
- Here!
- Level 14.
Hey. that's where my mom worked.
- Do you think we should go?
- Fuck yes.
All clear. All clear.
Do it again.
Okay. Watch.
Benny. come here.
You gotta try this.
Mmm.
After you.
I understand that your ex-wife didn't
want to have anything to do with you.
Well. at least you're free.
unlike the rest of them.
Drink?
No. thanks.
We have a couple more minutes
here before we get confirmation
that the generator is safe.
Have a seat.
We need to stop.
You guys head up.
Let me know if
anyone's coming down.
Come on.
Relax.
They'll come and tell
me when it's done.
So. what did you
want to see me about?
I wanted to tell you a
story about the generator.
Does every conversation
about Mechanical
begin and end with
the generator?
That's not where
this story ends.
Go see if those rebels in the
cafeteria have settled down.
And see if there's any food.
You sure you're okay here?
These assholes aren't
going anywhere.
We're clear above.
Are you ready?
Fuck yes.
I'm dying in that thing.
I'll make sure no one's
coming from below.
What is it?
What's happened?
It's gone.
The timer.
How?
I don't know. but it's gone.
Hey!
Yeah?
Radio and tell them
it's all right.
They didn't connect the bomb.
Thank the Founders.
Listen. we gotta be careful.
No gunfire. No
sparks. All right?
Okay!
It's Dan.
Radio Bernard. The
bomb is not connected.
See. the generator is loud.
So in order to communicate.
you have to yell.
Over the years. crews have
developed a system of hand signals.
mostly done with one hand.
And they got pretty elaborate.
You can have a whole conversation.
And I taught that to the kids.
So. in my workshop. when you thought
that everything you saw on that camera
was all that was
being communicated...
Stop.
We were actually having a
whole different conversation.
We are being watched.
Okay...
We got your message.
What are you doing?
If she's alive.
you give her this.
Tell her I love her.
Tell her to never stop fighting.
Never stop being herself.
Because her whole life...
her whole life...
she's been perfect...
just the way she is.
Doc. let me do it.
Absolutely not.
Go.
- I can't.
- Hey...
go.
My mistake was in putting
my own personal desires
above those of
Mechanical. my family.
But that's a mistake
that I hope to rectify...
in five. four. three.
two. one.
The bomb's been neutralized.
We got in before
they can connect it.
Fuck.
Wow. that was dramatic.
What was that?
At the end of the
little countdown.
were we supposed to lose power?
What was supposed to happen?
What was that?
Something outside.
It felt like it came from...
Yeah.
- You're out of time.
- What?
You need to get home now.
Oh. shit.
What did you do?
Not just me.
All of us.
Put 'em down. Now!
Let's go!
Follow me!
What do you mean gone?
The stairs. between 92 and 90.
They're just gone.
How many raiders are trapped
below the explosion point?
You told me to send them all.
Come on!
Give us the truth!
Kat!
- Kat. are you okay?
- Yeah. we're okay.
Good. Okay. Let's keep moving.
- Tell us the truth!
- We know it's a lie.
Give us the truth.
Get whoever you
can to protect IT.
Everyone above the explosion is
either defending their position
or abandoning post.
Maybe I can gather some
raiders. Maybe Sims?
Go. Go!
Go!
- Bernard.
- Where have you been?
- Just shut up and listen.
- What?
There's no time. okay?
I need you to look like we are
having a serious conversation.
But just listen.
Don't say a word.
Because if it hears
this. we're dead.
I solved the code.
It's true.
It's why Meadows
quit as your shadow.
It's why I quit.
Boss?
Bernard. Hey. Bernard!
What did Lukas Kyle say to you?
Hello. Rob.
What did he say?
Hey.
You still wanna be my shadow?
What?
You got it.
You're now my shadow.
The code is 552039.
Good luck. Robert.
You were very loyal...
until you weren't.
- Hey. can you get the tape?
- Yeah.
It's in the desk drawer.
I'm gonna need help to
seal the suit once it's on.
So...
No. no. no.
Fuck!
- Fuck!
- Maybe we could fix it. What if we...
How are you gonna fix it? You're probably
the reason that it's ruined anyway.
- How could I be the reason? I wasn't...
- Because you're the Eater.
Just shut up! Stop!
She's the reason our
parents are dead.
- No. she's not! No. she's not!
- Yes. she is.
She didn't ask for
this. None of us did.
You wanna be angry?
Be angry at the motherfuckers who
built this place and put us in it!
Not us.
Not her.
All we're trying
to do is survive.
But the only way we can do that
is by trusting the other people
stuck in the same
shit as we are.
But you're not stuck with
us though. You're leaving.
You're damn right I'm
leaving. I'm going home.
'Cause somewhere not
too far from here.
the people I love. they might
be killing each other right now.
And those are the people
that I'm stuck with.
My friends. My family. My dad.
Look at what you have.
You've got Rick.
And Benny.
And Tess.
And you have Hope.
Not Eater or whatever asshole
name you wanna give her.
You wanna be angry? Then be angry
but be angry with each other.
not at each other.
This is it.
You're all that's left.
So just make it work.
But you have to make it
work right fucking now.
Right. I have another suit.
I don't even know if it's gonna work.
but I'm gonna have to try. Jimmy. w...
Where's Jimmy?
No.
It's gone.
- When you got mad. Jimmy...
- He left.
He...
- You're back.
- I am.
Are you okay?
Yeah. I'm fine.
What's going on out there?
I heard shouting.
The room shook.
It's just a lot
of nonsense. okay?
Lukas. what's wrong?
What happened?
Everything is okay. Mom. It's...
It's fine.
Did you do what you needed to?
Turns out it didn't need doing.
No.
Let's get you fixed up.
Walk?
- Where's Bernard?
- He left after the explosion.
Almost everyone did.
IT is ours.
I knew it.
The hell you did.
Deep down. I knew.
- What's going on?
- Let's go out!
They're gonna try to go out.
Get out of the way!
Move! Move! Shit!
Jimmy!
Fuck.
Wait.
- Hey. Okay?
- Okay.
What are you doing?
What do you...
The helmet seal is airtight
and I used the good
tape around my wrists.
I figured if the water didn't come in and
I didn't drown. that it would be okay.
And it worked.
So you can use this
one to get back.
- No.
- Okay. Okay.
Hey. just... Thank you.
Thank you.
- We better get going.
- Yeah.
Okay.
My earliest memory.
I'm under two.
I'm lying in bed next to you
and playing with your hands.
They were so big.
What made you think of that?
I don't know.
Sorry to barge in
like this. Mrs. Kyle.
but I need to ask
your son something.
What the fuck did
you say to Bernard?
Mr. Holland. What's happening?
What do we do?
- We deserve to know. Please.
- Tell us the truth.
You gotta tell us
the truth. Mr...
Get the fuck out.
Out!
Not you.
Okay. Juliette. let's
get you suited up.
Yeah.
This work?
Yeah. it's great.
Thanks.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's okay. It's okay.
Hold on.
Coming back. right?
No. I...
To be honest. I don't know what's
gonna happen when I walk outside
so I'm not gonna lie to you.
Okay?
Look. what happened to the parents is
not your fault. You know that. right?
You're strong and you're
smart. and you're capable.
Yeah?
You're gonna be okay.
You all will.
You should go. You shouldn't
be here when we open the door.
Okay.
You're his shadow now?
I am.
He gave you the key?
He did.
Is there any way you
could put that gun away?
- There is not.
- It's okay.
See. the thing about that
key. Bernard made the mistake
of assuming that everything is
okay because it's not lighting up.
but he was wrong.
It's not lighting up
because it's over.
What's over?
The rebellion?
No.
Then what?
What did you say?
I can't tell you.
I won't tell you.
Yes. you can kill
me and my mother.
Doesn't matter.
You should go.
Go to the vault.
See the Legacy while
there is still time.
You'll know it when you see it.
The code is 55...
I know what the fucking code is.
Okay.
- Okay.
- Hey.
I know why you said
what you said but...
you're gonna come back. right?
Nothing's gonna
stop me from trying.
Don't let them through!
Come on!
Teddy! Get me that! Get me that!
Go! Go!
Easy. Easy. Hey.
move. It's okay.
Bernard. Bernard.
We need you now.
I don't know what's going through your
head. but we need you to come out.
We need you to tell
the people the truth.
Billings!
- Get out of the way!
- Tell them the truth.
Bernard. that's all they need.
- You need to get out of the way.
- Please. One minute.
Let's talk to him. Let's hear
him out. Bernard. please.
- Bernard.
- Take him.
Open the... Stop. man! Wait! Hear him
out. Let's hear what he has to say. man.
Kennedy. listen!
Let's hear what he
has to say. Please!
Don't go outside. Come on!
Bring me the ram!
Let's go! Bring it through!
We're going all the way
out. All the way out.
- Get out of the way!
- Wait!
Is that...
It's gotta be.
It's her.
She lives.
Juliette lives!
Fuck!
Please state your name.
My name is Robert Sims.
Husband to Camille.
Father of Anthony.
Why are you here?
I want to save the Silo.
So do I.
Judge Sims. you and your
son must leave the vault.
Camille can stay.
Hey!
You're gonna shoot me?
Why are you here?
I'm here to keep
everyone from going out.
That's... You're the reason
everyone wants to go out.
If you wanted to
shoot me. I'd be dead.
- Why are you here. Bernard?
- I just want to go outside.
Feel free for one fucking
moment of my life.
So why the gun?
For the end.
If the pain is too much.
There's no point. what you're
trying to do. save them.
It's out of your hands. It
was never in your hands.
In my hands. Anyone's hands.
Because of the poison
they can pump in?
- You know about that?
- I know about that.
But I don't know who'd do
it and I don't know why.
I know the who. but I don't know
why. and I don't fucking care.
After all I've done. sacrificed to
find out it never really mattered.
They call it
- "the Safeguard Procedure."
- Procedure. I know.
An innocuous little term
that means they can kill
us at any time they want.
No. maybe not.
What do you mean?
Look...
I think I figured something out.
- No. No. no. no. No.
- You can't go in there.
You'll burn to death.
No! No. no!
Get down!
They still got you
doing this outside?
You ever get a red?
Not really.
- Hey.
Helen?
Are we gonna do the
thing where we pretend
that we don't know what
each other looks like?
I guess not.
So. okay. let's get
it out of the way.
Where were you when it happened?
- I was in session...
- Session that day. right?
I was. indeed. yes. Serving the
good people of Georgia's 15th.
And you. where were you?
I've... At work. at...
Am I supposed to finish
that sentence? I'm not sure.
I... Is that bad?
It's one... It's
a reporting place.
It's a... Magazi...
The... it's The Post.
Oh. God. it's The Post.
Are you still at The Post?
- I...
- Did you really not google me?
Is that so bad?
Wow. okay.
Well. I know that you are
a freshman congressman.
Okay. Well. my age and
flag pin give that away.
Representing. like you said.
the 15th district of Georgia.
Fighting 15th.
And because you can't run anyone
these days unless they served.
after you got a master's in engineering
at the University of Georgia.
you joined the army.
Well. kind of.
Kind of?
Army Corps of Engineers
isn't exactly humping an M-16
through the sandbox.
Thank you.
I better change the subject
before I start bragging about
what we did in New Orleans.
Look at you working that into
conversation so smoothly.
Did you know anyone
who was affected?
- By the dirty bomb?
- Yeah.
No. You?
No. My uncle Tyler's been
ranting about Iran for years.
so he took it personally.
But...
my sister's the only one who lives
in D.C. She was away at the time.
Actually. the...
the dirty bomb is what I
wanted to talk to you about.
Starting to feel like I'm the only
one who thought this was a date.
A date?
I know no one uses
that term anymore.
If they're 95.
Probably wouldn't have
worked out anyway.
Me being a Bulldog. You a Duck.
Did I get that right.
- the University of Oregon?
- I thought you didn't look me up.
Let the record show I
actually dodged the question.
How about I just cut to it?
I'm here because I think
that the people you work for.
and by that I mean the
citizens of this country.
not the shadowy creeps
who pay for campaigns.
I think the people need
to know if there are plans
to strike back against Iran.
whether or not there really was
a radiological weapon attack
on the United States.
How about you?
What do you think?
I think I better go.
Here.
This a gift or...
- It's how I was brought up.
- Something from your home state?
It's not a peach.
Nah. it's just something I panic
bought at the convenience store
around the corner
from my apartment.
You take care.
Can I get the check?
Thank you.